Linux QSB Demo


DESCRIPTION
-----------

The file qsb-helloworld.c is provided as a demonstration of how to 
communicate with the QSB in a Linux environment. It was tested using 
Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic Koala) but should work similarly in other Debian-
based distributions. 

The program configures the QSB to read an encoder in quadrature mode 
and count up to 500 pulses before restarting at 0. It then polls the 
QSB for updates in the count and displays them in a loop until the user 
ends the program using Ctrl-C.



FINDING THE QSB
---------------

The program depends on a hot/cold-plugging mechanism like udev to map the 
QSB to a USB-to-serial device. The code assumes that no other USB tty 
device is present and tries to open /dev/ttyUSB0. This may be a problem in 
systems where other USB devices are present that also act as UARTs. Linux 
is not deterministic in assigning node files to the scanned devices upon 
boot; there is also a possibility that the QSB is plugged later on, when 
an unknown number of devices may have been connected to the computer.

One way to deal with this issue is by creating a symbolic link in the /dev 
directory with a  predetermined node name that the code can safely use. 
For example, /dev/qsb could be a predetermined link that refers to the 
actual device assigned by the Kernel. The specific ways to do this vary 
by distribution and by hot-plugging mechanism and are out of the scope 
of this demo.

For information on using udev to create the link automatically at boot or 
at plug-in time, check the following resources:

  - en.wikipedia.org/wiki/udev
  - reactivated.net/writing_udev_rules.html
  - ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=168221


The following values for the QSB may be useful when configuring the 
hot-plugging mechanism:

  - Vendor ID: 0403
  - Product ID: 6001



RUNNING THE DEMO
----------------

The code is self contained and does not need anything beyond stdlibc, so 
the compilation should be straightforward:

	gcc -o qsb-helloworld qsb-helloworld.c

Make sure to plug in the QSB before running the demo to avoid errors due to
a missing dev node. Depending on your particular setup, some modifications 
to the code may be necessary.
